as David Deutsch has observed it wasn't
just that people in the 1800s weren't
able to predict the possibility of
nuclear Holocaust in the 20th century
because it's an intractably complex
problem but rather they couldn't even
conceive of what nuclear weapons were
because Nuclear Physics was entirely
unknown then so people today making
predictions about what disaster will or
will not befall people in the coming
Century are in the same place as the
brightest minds of the early
Enlightenment were with respect to us
today they simply cannot conceive of
what knowledge we would have they the
people of the early Enlightenment
Geniuses though they were could not
conceive of what knowledge we would have
now so any prediction they tried to make
back then about what the world would be
like now was based on the physics and
Science and philosophy of the 17th 18th
and 19th centuries none of which even
mentioned for example nuclear fission
infusion what will we discover this
Century to completely change the
calculus of our modern day profits